---
title: 'Fast Sequences of Non-spatial State Representations in Humans'
title_fa:
layout: post_en
date: '2016-08-27'
date_fa:
categories: article
link: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.neuron.2016.05.028
doi: 10.1016/j.neuron.2016.05.028
tags:
  - Neuroscience
  - MEG
  - Spontaneous Neural Activities
  - Neural Representations
  - Hippocampal Replay
  - Non-spatial Tasks
---

> *Kurth-Nelson, Z., Economides, M., Dolan, R. J., & Dayan, P. (2016). Fast Sequences of Non-spatial State Representations in Humans. Neuron, 91(1), 194-204.* ([Link](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.neuron.2016.05.028))

Decoupled from sensory and motor signals, neural activities can also represent and replay past and possible future states (e.g., in memory consolidation, imaginations, learning, planning, and decision-making). Studies in rodent hippocampus show decoupled neural activities occur in form of internally-generated coherent sequences that encode trajectories through past or future states of spatial tasks. Not yet well-understood, these fast sequences may be a fundamental feature of neural computation across spatial and no-spatial tasks. From physiological perspective, this phenomenon is embedded within sharp-wave ripple events, or nested within theta rhythm. However, these sequences have only been studied in the context of spatial tasks in rodents, and never in humans.

<!--more-->

Kurth-Nelson et al. (2016) found similar sequences not only in human, but also for non-spatial tasks. They conducted a three-phase study: First, they recorded MEG signals of human subjects during a novel non-spatial reasoning task. The task was designed so corresponding neural representations could be decoded. Secondly they trained a classifier during a setting where subjects were presented with visual objects. Finally they recorded MEG signals and tested the trained classifiers with no object presented. During the final phase, the brain spontaneously visited representations of approximately four objects in reversed sequences, lasting on the order of 120 milliseconds.


Overall, they argue such sequences are a ubiquitous mechanism, might be analogous to the rodent hippocampal findings, and can be measured non-invasively in humans.


---
### Highlights
- Task requires navigating between objects whose neural representations can be decoded.
- After task has been learned, spontaneous MEG activity encodes reverse paths.
- These spontaneous sequences are up to four states long.
- Sequences might be cognate with rodent hippocampal “replay”.

### Summary
Fast internally generated sequences of neural representations are suggested to support learning and online planning. However, these sequences have only been studied in the context of spatial tasks and never in humans. Here, we recorded magnetoencephalography (MEG) while human subjects performed a novel non-spatial reasoning task. The task required selecting paths through a set of six visual objects. We trained pattern classifiers on the MEG activity elicited by direct presentation of the visual objects alone and tested these classifiers on activity recorded during periods when no object was presented. During these object-free periods, the brain spontaneously visited representations of approximately four objects in fast sequences lasting on the order of 120 ms. These sequences followed backward trajectories along the permissible paths in the task. Thus, spontaneous fast sequential representation of states can be measured non-invasively in humans, and these sequences may be a fundamental feature of neural computation across tasks.
