---
title_fa:
title: "Dissociation between Musical and Monetary Reward Responses in Specific Musical Anhedonia"
layout: post_en
date: '2016-09-30'
date_fa:
comments: true
categories: article
link: http://www.cell.com/current-biology/pdf/S0960-9822(14)00133-X.pdf
doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2014.01.068
pmid:
tags:
- Musical Anhedonia
- Music
- Pleasure
- Reward System
- Monetary Reward
---

> *Mas-Herrero, E., Zatorre, R. J., Rodriguez-Fornells, A., & Marco-Pallarés, J. (2014). Dissociation between musical and monetary reward responses in specific musical anhedonia. Current biology, 24(6), 699-704.* ([PDF](http://www.cell.com/current-biology/pdf/S0960-9822(14)00133-X.pdf))


Music has been present in all human cultures since prehistory, although it is not associated with any apparent biological advantages (such as food, sex, etc.) or utility value (such as money). Nevertheless, music is ranked among the highest sources of pleasure, and its important role in our society and culture has led to the assumption that the ability of music to induce pleasure is universal. However, this assumption has never been empirically tested. In the present report, we identified a group of healthy individuals without depression or generalized anhedonia who showed reduced behavioral pleasure ratings and no autonomic responses to pleasurable music, despite having normal musical perception capacities. These persons showed preserved behavioral and physiological responses to monetary reward, indicating that the low sensitivity to music was not due to a global hypofunction of the reward network. These results point to the existence of specific musical anhedonia and suggest that there may be individual differences in access to the reward system.
<!--more-->

### Highlights

- Healthy people with specific musical anhedonia are identified.
- These individuals do not find music pleasurable, but enjoy other rewarding stimuli
- They show normal autonomic responses to monetary reward, but not to pleasant music
- Specific anhedonia reflect the existence of different access to the reward system
