---
title_fa:
title: "Objects of Consciousness"
layout: post_en
date: '2016-12-10'
date_fa:
comments: true
categories: article
link: http://journal.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00577/pdf
doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00577
pmid:
tags:
- Consciousness
- Quantum Theory
- Markov Chains
- Combination Problem
- Geometric Algebra
---

> *Hoffman, D., & Prakash, C. (2014). Objects of consciousness. Frontiers in Psychology, 5.*
([PDF](http://journal.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00577/pdf))

Current models of visual perception typically assume that human vision estimates true properties of physical objects, properties that exist even if unperceived. However, recent studies of perceptual evolution, using evolutionary games and genetic algorithms, reveal that natural selection often drives true perceptions to extinction when they compete with perceptions tuned to fitness rather than truth: Perception guides adaptive behavior; it does not estimate a preexisting physical truth. Moreover, shifting from evolutionary biology to quantum physics, there is reason to disbelieve in preexisting physical truths: Certain interpretations of quantum theory deny that dynamical properties of physical objects have definite values when unobserved. In some of these interpretations the observer is fundamental, and wave functions are compendia of subjective probabilities, not preexisting elements of physical reality. These two considerations, from evolutionary biology and quantum physics, suggest that current models of object perception require fundamental reformulation.

Hoffman and Prakash (2014) begin such a reformulation, starting with a formal model of consciousness that they call a “conscious agent.” They develop the dynamics of interacting conscious agents, and study how the perception of objects and space-time can emerge from such dynamics. They show that one particular object, the quantum free particle, has a wave function that is identical in form to the harmonic functions that characterize the asymptotic dynamics of conscious agents; particles are vibrations not of strings but of interacting conscious agents. This allows us to reinterpret physical properties such as position, momentum, and energy as properties of interacting conscious agents, rather than as preexisting physical truths. They sketch how this approach might extend to the perception of relativistic quantum objects, and to classical objects of macroscopic scale.
