---
title_fa:
title: "Cosmic Radiation Exposure and Persistent Cognitive Dysfunction"
layout: post_en
date: '2016-10-13'
date_fa:
comments: true
categories: article
link: http://www.nature.com/articles/srep34774
doi: 10.1038/srep34774
pmid:
tags:
- Mars
- Astronomy
- Cosmic Radiation
- Spine Regulation and Structure
- Cellular Neuroscience
- Pathology
---

> *Parihar, V. K., Allen, B. D., Caressi, C., Kwok, S., Chu, E., Tran, K. K., Chmielewski, N. N., Giedzinski, E., Acharya, M. M., Britten, R. A., Baulch, J. E., & Limoli, C. L. (2016). Cosmic radiation exposure and persistent cognitive dysfunction. Nature: Scientific Reports, 6, 34774.*
([PDF](http://www.nature.com/articles/srep34774.pdf))

As NASA prepares for the first manned spaceflight to Mars, questions have surfaced concerning the potential for increased risks associated with exposure to the spectrum of highly energetic nuclei that comprise galactic cosmic rays.

The Mars mission will result in an inevitable exposure to cosmic radiation that has been shown to cause cognitive impairments in rodent models, and possibly in astronauts engaged in deep space travel. Of particular concern is the potential for cosmic radiation exposure to compromise critical decision making during normal operations or under emergency conditions in deep space. Rodents exposed to cosmic radiation exhibit persistent hippocampal and cortical based performance decrements using six independent behavioral tasks administered between separate cohorts 12 and 24 weeks after irradiation. Radiation-induced impairments in spatial, episodic and recognition memory were temporally coincident with deficits in executive function and reduced rates of fear extinction and elevated anxiety. Irradiation caused significant reductions in dendritic complexity, spine density and altered spine morphology along medial prefrontal cortical neurons known to mediate neurotransmission interrogated by behavioral tasks. Cosmic radiation also disrupted synaptic integrity and increased neuroinflammation that persisted more than 6 months after exposure. Behavioral deficits for individual animals correlated significantly with reduced spine density and increased synaptic puncta, providing quantitative measures of risk for developing cognitive impairment. Data provide additional evidence that deep space travel poses a real and unique threat to the integrity of neural circuits in the brain.
