---
title_fa:
title: "Judging the Ability of Friends and Foes"
layout: post_en
date: '2016-10-12'
date_fa:
comments: true
categories: article
link: http://www.cell.com/trends/cognitive-sciences/fulltext/S1364-6613(16)30126-7
doi: 10.1016/j.tics.2016.08.009
pmid: 27593904
tags:
- Anchoring
- Social Psychology
- Self-Others Distinction
- Social Identity
- Judgement
---

> *Cook, J. L., Murphy, J., & Bird, G. (2016). Judging the Ability of Friends and Foes. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 20(10), 717-719.*
([Link](http://www.cell.com/trends/cognitive-sciences/fulltext/S1364-6613(16)30126-7))


Collaboration leads us to judge our own ability to be more similar to our collaborators and their ability to be more similar to our own, while competition leads us to exaggerate the gap between our abilities. How does this happen and what does it mean?

As a social species, humans are continually tracking the states of our conspecifics. We monitor states of knowledge, emotion, and physical condition to better predict and control our interactions with others and to learn about our physical and social environment. Representation of others also allows information to be garnered about the self; knowledge of my previous attempts to run 100 m enables me to predict how long it will take the next time I do so but does not enable me to answer the question *Am I fast?*; only comparison with others allows us to answer such relational questions.

<!--more-->

Representation of others introduces a requirement to keep self- and other-related representations distinct. For example, if I am preparing to return your tennis serve I need to form as complete a representation of your action as possible to predict the flight of the ball but keep the representation of your action distinct from the representation of my motor plan to return the ball. A similar *self–other distinction* is necessary when attempting to adopt the perspective of others or to represent their emotions or attitudes, especially when they are in conflict with one's own. Interestingly, the degree to which a self–other distinction is maintained can be impacted by task demands and social factors. Although we tend to imitate individuals from our ingroup more than from outgroups (a result of blurring the distinction between self and other for ingroup members), this tendency can be nullified, or even reversed, when our aim is to engender cooperation with outgroup members and to compete with ingroup members.            
