---
title_fa:
title: "Gene Name Errors Are Widespread in the Scientific Literature"
layout: post_en
date: '2016-09-21'
date_fa:
comments: true
categories: article
link: http://genomebiology.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s13059-016-1044-7
doi: 10.1186/s13059-016-1044-7
pmid: 27552985
tags:
- Genetic
- Microsoft Excel
- Gene Symbol
- Supplementary Data
- Methodology
- Genome Biology
---

> *Ziemann, M., Eren, Y., & El-Osta, A. (2016). Gene name errors are widespread in the scientific literature. Genome Biology, 17(1), 177.* ([Link](http://genomebiology.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s13059-016-1044-7))


The spreadsheet software Microsoft Excel, when used with default settings, is known to convert gene names to dates and floating-point numbers. A programmatic scan of leading genomics journals reveals that approximately one-fifth of papers with supplementary Excel gene lists contain erroneous gene name conversions.


The problem of Excel software inadvertently converting gene symbols to dates and floating-point numbers was originally described before. For example, gene symbols such as SEPT2 (Septin 2) and MARCH1 [Membrane-Associated Ring Finger (C3HC4) 1, E3 Ubiquitin Protein Ligase] are converted by default to ‘2-Sep’ and ‘1-Mar’, respectively. Furthermore, RIKEN identifiers were described to be automatically converted to floating point numbers (i.e. from accession ‘2310009E13’ to ‘2.31E+13’). Since that report, we have uncovered further instances where gene symbols were converted to dates in supplementary data of recently published papers (e.g. ‘SEPT2’ converted to ‘2006/09/02’). This suggests that gene name errors continue to be a problem in supplementary files accompanying articles. Inadvertent gene symbol conversion is problematic because these supplementary files are an important resource in the genomics community that are frequently reused. Our aim here is to raise awareness of the problem.
