---
title_fa: 
title: "Intrinsic Honesty and the Prevalence of Rule Violations Across Societies"
layout: post_en
date: '2017-08-27'
date_fa:
comments: true
categories: article
link: http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v531/n7595/full/nature17160.html
doi: 10.1038/nature17160
pmid:
tags:
- Deception
- Honesty
- Social
- Prevalence of Rule Violations
---

> *Gächter, S., & Schulz, J. F. (2016). Intrinsic honesty and the prevalence of rule violations across societies. Nature, 531(7595), 496-499.*
([Link](http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v531/n7595/full/nature17160.html))

Deception is common in nature and humans are no exception1. Modern societies have created institutions to control cheating, but many situations remain where only intrinsic honesty keeps people from cheating and violating rules. Psychological2, sociological3 and economic theories4 suggest causal pathways to explain how the prevalence of rule violations in people’s social environment, such as corruption, tax evasion or political fraud, can compromise individual intrinsic honesty. Gächter et al (2016) present cross-societal experiments from 23 countries around the world that demonstrate a robust link between the prevalence of rule violations and intrinsic honesty. They developed an index of the ‘prevalence of rule violations’ (PRV) based on country-level data from the year 2003 of corruption, tax evasion and fraudulent politics. Gächter et al (2016) measured intrinsic honesty in an anonymous die-rolling experiment5. They conducted the experiments with 2,568 young participants (students) who, due to their young age in 2003, could not have influenced PRV in 2003. They find individual intrinsic honesty is stronger in the subject pools of low PRV countries than those of high PRV countries. The details of lying patterns support psychological theories of honesty6, 7. The results are consistent with theories of the cultural co-evolution of institutions and values8, and show that weak institutions and cultural legacies9, 10, 11 that generate rule violations not only have direct adverse economic consequences, but might also impair individual intrinsic honesty that is crucial for the smooth functioning of society.
